Hi.
We didn't this lecture we're going to see how to retrieve information from core data so that we can
display those in our table view.
So let's go to our real controller right.
Because that's what we're going to.
That's where we're going to get this information because we want to display those information in our
table view and I see we didn't ever even do the table view set up in here but we can do that very easily
because we have done that so many times.
So I'm going to do this very quick.
I'm going to say this is my table we've delegate and you I table we use data source.
So remember we have to do this table to delegate and data source so that we can come over here to we
did load and just say table we you delegate itself and table we you data source again itself.
I'm not explaining you the steps right now because we have already seen this many times.
So I said that you get to practice it many times right.
So let's go for a number of frozen section which will define how many rows that that is going to be
displayed in our table view.
Well right now I'm just going to say 10 and south for a row at index pad.
It will define the individual cells inside of each row.
So it expects us to create a UI table we use cell.
So I'm going to say a UI table view cell.
OK.
And then in the cell I'm going to have a tax label which displays the text of tests and I'm going to
return the cell.
And here we go.
How quick we did that in the first time we have learnt this.
We spend like 15 minutes now we can do this under a minute.
So far so good.
We have our table we ready for us.
Now it's time to actually get the information from the core data so that we can display those information
in this table will.
So what we are going to get we can get all those information like Image Name year I.D. but of course
it doesn't make sense to get all of those information and store it in this view controller.
Why.
Because we're going to display those details in the next we have controller in the details we have controller
right.
And we don't have to get like that thousand images in here.
We don't have to download everything from the database.
We're not actually downloading but we're reaching with inside of database.
But again it would be very inefficient because you're going to need only one image.
Right.
So if I do that on the details view controller I can just say Ok Bring me the selected our selected
paintings image so that it will take only one image out of the database and show it to me if I do it
that over here I will just get like a thousand images and show them stardom in variables and it will
be much more inefficient.
So I'm going to create a name array and I'm going to create an idea.
Because that's the only two values that I will be needing in this lecture in this part of the app.
And again name array will be strengths but ideally we'll be you you I.D. remember we have created this
as a type of you you idea rather than string.
So we're going to get this as a you idea and we're going to save all this information as a you you idea
as well.
So rather than doing this under we did loads I'm just going to create a new function because this will
be a little bit long.
So we're going to write everything under does get data function.
So how to get data from Core Data database.
It's actually very similar to the process overwriting data we need to get the app delegates one more
time so I'm going to write it.
Of course you can copy and paste is if you want but I believe the practice will make you better show
I'm going to write everything from scratch so I'm going to say UI application that shared and light
your own dots delegate.
OK I'm going to first cast is as an app delegate and then later I'm going to create my contacts variable.
So this will drive from the app delegates.
OK.
So let contacts be app delegate.
That's persistence.
Commentator like this container tenure or persistence container dot com text OK we have context.
So this is going to give us context and we're going to use this but our patch methods so fetching means
getting information from the database.
Somebody's going to do that.
Here to do that we're going to Neves need something called an S fetch request.
Why do we need those.
Let me say contact dot patch.
It will ask me for it to create an object called and as FHA request with and as FHA request results.
OK so first I have to create this.
And as FHA requests so that I can give it to my contacts so that it will create a result back to me.
And we are going to do that.
We do try catch one more time because it throws as you can see.
So let me show you how to create the FHA quest.
And in order to do that I'm going to use.
And as FHA request.
And of course B if I can not import these core data I cannot use anything.
So I'm going to go ahead and do that and I can just say in as fetch requests and inside of design as
facial cast I have to have and it's FHA request results.
And I believe there should be something wrong with this because he should have asked me for an entity
name and it didn't.
So let me delete this or if I open parentheses Yeah it doesn't still ask.
So let me delete this then as I just write it from the beginning.
So as you can see it asks me for an entity name because we haven't provided our paintings entered the
name in anywhere.
So we have to do that first.
If I live it like this it will still give me there.
I have to say and as feature request results as you can see.
So it's kind of a bug.
It should just ask me everything at once.
So this is and this fetching Chris result an entity name is paintings.
So that's how you create FH requests as you can see ex code actually guides us through this process.
So if you know you have to call fetch that you can just go over here as a context badge and it will
say yeah I'm needing Yeah I need something called an FHA request and if you try to create that variable
it will just asks you for an entity name and a request a result of course it guides you but you have
to know what you're going to do.
So that's what this course is about or you can just read the documentation but you have to be very efficient
in swift maybe like an advance in order to understand everything.
Later on I'm going to use something called returns.
Objects as false.
And the reason that I'm doing that I'm just going to say that's false.
The reason I'm doing that if this is false it means that I'm not going to get the objects as false and
it would be more efficient because it would just set up the cash and use this in the background of Core
Data retrieving a writing.
And it would speed up the process if you're dealing with a lot of data.
So we're going to have to save face requests that returns objects as fold false.
And then later on I can just come over here and I can just call the context that fetch as I did before.
And again it will ask me for and do try catch structure which is what we're going to do anyway because
once you go with card data once you work with correlate you have to get used to the fact that you have
to use a lot of do try catch because it throws an error as you can see.
So the important part here is that it returns us and end as fate Eurocrats request a result as expected
but it returns with an array of these results even if I have one object in the core data it will still
return an array for me.
So I have to cast is as a variable I have to assign this to a variable and I have to use that variable
to go inside of a for loop so that I can actually reach the individual and that's managed objects.
So this is good but we have to do this in.
I do try catch as it suggests.
OK and off to did you try to think we can just go in the for loop under do right before we catch if
there is any error so it's fairly easy to do that.
We have learned how to do it.
So come over here and say try we're going to try this under a do code block.
OK let me cuts everything in here I'm pasted and then later all I'm going to catch if there is there
is any error and I will print error for right now and in here do try catch block I'm going to assign
this to a variable as I said before because why.
Because the results will give me an error rate.
So if I say array I will see that this is any type.
So rather than giving me an S manage object it gives me an any type so I have to cast this as an N S
managed object array.
So it's kind of boring to cast everything in it's kind of boring to do everything safe.
I know but this is how it works with core data unfortunately.
So I'm going to say hub for result in results.
And in order to cast result as an end this managed object.
And I have to do that because I want to reach DNS managed object type methods and functionalities in
order to retrieve the data out of that object.
I'm going to first cast is as an appendage object.
Okay.
So this is a core data module object and we can reach the functions of that core data model object so
that we can say something like Okay.
Bring me the value for key name.
Bring me the value for key year.
So in order to do that I have to cast as as an S managed object.
So if I say result the individual a result will be N and S managed object as you can see.
And now I can just say result that value and it will give me a value for key name for example.
And this will be I again add any value I have to cast is as a strange K optional string.
And the best way to do this actually use on a flat one more time.
So I'm going to say a flat name result that value for key name as string.
Then if this only this works out then I'm going to punt this Oh my name Mary.
And if if this doesn't work out I'm just going to do nothing.
So if this works out only thing that is left to do for me is to append this to my name Mary.
Right.
And we have created those arrays here so I can come over here and say s dog named Mary dot appends and
I will add the name value in here.
So next what I'm going to do I'm going to do the same thing for I.D. as well so I'm going to say he
fled.
I did that result value for I.D. as not string but you I.D. this time because you're going to punt this
as a you you idea anyway.
OK.
And then we're done.
So that's the two values that we have been looking for.
So the name and the I.D. And in here after we are done I have to come over here and refresh the table
view.
And before we do that let me just say Name three dots count here and name array index Panther 0 in here
so that we will display the values for name Mary and that's OK.
But I have to also refresh the data because I'm adding something new to those arrays.
So I have to go to the table with and say please refresh yourself for me so you can just go and say
so I've got table we've got three load data and it doesn't work because I misspelled the table view.
So table we use that to reload data so it reloads the data off the table.
Okay.
That's great.
That's how we get information from core data.
So before we forget let's call this function we did load so we get the data once we open the application
so let's try this.
We only have one value inside of our core data.
And here we go we see the waterfall.
So if I click on this I cannot see the details yet.
So I'm not sure if my image is saved if my year is saved but I can easily see the name is saved.
So I'm pretty certain that it works.
And let me try to add another one.
OK.
Let me choose this flower and for the name I'm going to go for a flower.
I'm gonna just come up with an artist like Bongo.
OK.
And the year will be nineteen hundred and I'm just going to call save and it's so show success.
But it should have taken me back but it doesn't seem to be happening.
We're going to have to manually do this.
So if I run this one more time as you can see I see the flower.
So we have to fix those areas like it has to take me back automatically any task to show me the new
value that I have saved in order to do that.
We're going to have to implement some new codes.
Let's stop here and do that within the next lecture.